# voiceChatroom
## Basic Concept
This prototype was to see if it was possible to create some sort of TTS (text to speech) chat room, similar to that of [Moonbase Alpha](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hv6RbEOlqRo). The general premise is that anybody from anywhere can join a public chatroom and have their text converted to speech. A stretch goal would be to write some sort of basic markup language for users to use to change the pitch of each of their words. This could result for the ability to make basic songs and singing. The idea seemed like a fun concept for a toy project. 
## Design Overview
The general concept is to use websockets as a means of sending the text to and from each client. The text could then be read by the browsers [Web Speech API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Speech_API). The hope with this method was that it would be very efficient to send data to and from the server since it only uses text and not audio files. This meant that the vocalization would be relatively instantaneous and resource efficient for the server. It is also the simplest method, compared to trying to get the server to generate audio from all incoming text.
## Drawbacks
There are two big drawbacks with using the Web Speech API for this project, which mostly stem from how the API queues up text to translate. Since the API has a queue, it will only translate inputs one at a time, with pauses placed in between. This is ideal for most TTS situations, but this pause and synchornous behaviour doesn't capture the same sense of chaos that the Moonbase Alpha chat has. The pauses also mean that it isn't possible to really create songs that flow.
## Going Forward
A chatroom like this on the web is still probably viable. A future approach would be to run a program like eSpeak or Festival on the server to generate .wav files for incoming text. Basic experiments showed that even uncompressed .wav files can be around ~50 kB for small lines of text, which is relatively small in the age of video streaming. For reference, the react and react-dom packages are roughly 109 kB. Without research, the biggest uncertainties (for me) with this approach is whether it is possible to play multiple audio files at the same time, and if it is possible to generate the sounds files in at most 1-2 seconds.
